---
layout: talk
active: bob2023
title: "Wood instead of ivory—functional programming for CNC machines"
speaker: quchen
portrait: luposchainsky.jpg
time: 17:10-17:55
type: Vortrag
language: english
head: 2023
---

Functional programming has long left the domain of academia. But what
does it truly mean to be <em>general purpose</em>? It means that you can
wirte programs for all domains, such as steering your CNC router, and
literally cutting metal using functional programming.

Last year, me and Franz Thoma held a workshop on generative art at
BOB, and our associated library. The pictures, while nice, are still
digital, so I set out to build an almost-DIN-A1-sized CNC router that
now resides in my living room.

The instructions this machine runs is called G-Code, a semi-standard
machine code used by all sorts of CNC machines, e.g. 3D printers,
mills, or laser cutters. My machine is a pen plotter (for safety
reasons – for now), and it moves a pen over paper, thousands of times,
for hours on end, to paint pretty pictures. This machine code is 100%
generated by Haskell.


### David Luposchainsky (quchen)

[@quch3n](https://twitter.com/quch3n)

Programming since he was around age 10, quchen got interested in functional
programming, specifically Haskell, ten years ago. He started the
journey from thinking it would be esoteric but interesting, realized
it was useful and interesting, to making core contributions to GHC and
Haskell itself. Compilers were of particular interest to him, and when
you’ve spent enough time with them, you see interesting data
transformations everywhere. Now he has a compiler from geometry to
machine code for a living room CNC machine.
